---
layout: post
title: "Pairing tour -- Week 2"
description: "My second week of pairing"
categories: [pairing]
tags: [pairing client consulting]
redirect_from:
  - /2018/06/25
---
For week two of pairing, I was lucky enough to be able to partner up with Becca on a React application. Since most of the work was being done on the frontend I got to see a lot of Redux and React Router in action which I enjoyed and learned a lot from. We had our work cut out for us right out of the gate because there was a demo coming up and we needed to have certain features out the door ASAP. Even though we were under the gun, we didn't let TDD fall to the wayside. In fact, I feel that TDD reduced our stress and uncertainty so that we could be more productive. One thing that I found interesting was that in order to get better domain knowledge we would write a test, have it pass but then delete that test. The reason for that was that most of the time these tests were mostly to just confirm our understanding of the system. In the long run these tests did not really ensure reliability of the system so we could delete them. Nonetheless these tests proved to be valuable because we could actually test our assumptions without having to take wild guesses or feel around in the dark. This project also happened to have people come in and out of the production cycle during a hectic time. Managing expectations and setting acceptance criteria during a period of uncertainty and deadlines can be especially stressful. Having clear and concise stories in conjunction with good communication helped everyone stay on task and avoid confusion or duplication of work.

Later on in the week I paired with Rob on very interesting project involving blockchain technology. We were writing in Go which was completely new for me. Having never been exposed to any of the technology the project was using I had many questions but Rob was extremely patient with me and answered all my questions with clarity. One thing that helped me understand the system was asking questions, writing down the things that I understood and then writing down follow up questions based on any holes in my understanding. This prevents me from asking too many repeat questions because I can refer to my notes. Also, writing helps slow down your thoughts so you can concentrate on condensing your thoughts into a easily understood language. There is a lot of developments in the crypto world so keeping on top of all the terminology and how everything works together can be tough. One strategy that helped me understand the project better was to create a very rough diagram of the project data-flow. By visually mapping out how different parts of the system interacted with each other in a rudimentary way, I was able to get a high-level perspective on what parts did what and what features we were still missing/working on. In true 8th Light fashion, we developed each new feature in TDD style. One issue we did run up against was that our mocks were starting to get more and more complicated as we moved further into the application. I wasn't on the project long enough to see a refactor of the mocks but it was on Rob's radar. Tests are generally reflect the complexity of the code they are testing so the simpler tests you have, the easier it is to understand the code that it's testing (generally speaking). Overall I learned so much from pairing this week.
