---
layout: post
title: "Vim"
description: "A post about Vim"
categories: [Vim]
tags: [Vim]
redirect_from:
  - /2018/05/19
---
I think many developers first experience with Vim is when you are messing around with git and suddenly you find yourself in a Vim editor. You violently smash your hands on the keyboard trying to get out of this virtual booby-trap sprung on you and you cry to Google for help. How do I get out of Vim?! For many, this is a shocking and mostly confusing introduction to an incredible tool. For a long while I've known about Vim and I've been curious about how to use it and now that my apprenticeship requires that I learn it, I've been muddling around in Vim for about a week or so now. I've learned a lot about Vim in just a week but I'd like to share some of the commands that I find essential to starting out in Vim and a few plugins that I'm using that are great too.

There are two main "modes" in Vim, "normal" and "insert" mode. Normal mode allows you to navigate around text and enter hotkeys for commands. Navigating in Vim is a lot like a video game. You can use the "h","l","j","k" keys to move left, right, down and up respectively (although I tend to use the arrow keys to do the same navigation). Insert mode on the other hand works more like you would expect a regular text editor to work. You can type and edit text as you would would in Microsoft Word or some other popular word processing application.

Vim is popular for being the "programmer's" code editor and there's a good reason for that. With the right commands under your belt, you can fly around files and make editions, deletions or additions without ever taking your hands off the keyboard. I am by no means a Vim master (I've only been messing around with it for about a week now) but I'd like to make a very short list of some of the commands I've learned that I've found incredibly useful and/or powerful.

```dd```: Deletes a whole line and saves it to a clipboard of sorts

```p```: Pastes whatever is in your clipboard

```$```: Go to end of line

```0```: Go to very beginning of line

```^```: Go to first non-space character of line

```dtx```: "x" in this case is a character. This command will "delete" "til" "x" so if you have the word "happy" and your cursor is on "h", you'll end up with "ppy"

```dfx```: Same as ```dtx``` except this will *include* the character so "happy" becomes "py"

```w```: Jumps the cursor forwards to the start of a word

```e```: Jumps the cursor forwards to the end of a word

```b```: Jumps the cursor backwards to the start of a word

```fx```: "x" in this case is a character. Jumps the cursor to the next occurrence of "x"

```o```: Append a new line below the current line

```O```: Append a new line above the current line

```u```: Undo last action

```Ctrl + r```: Redo last action

```V```: Start linewise visual mode (you can use the directional keys to highlight multiple lines and do actions)

```>>```: Shift text right

```<<```: Shift text left

```y```: Yank (works like copy). You can combine yank with a command like ```$``` to yank/copy until the end of a line

```x```: Delete (cut) character


There are a ton of really powerful commands in Vim and this is a good site if you're looking for a certain command but may have forgotten exactly how to call it: [Vim Cheat Sheet](https://vim.rtorr.com/)

It's hard getting started with Vim because at the start you feel like you were so much faster when you didn't have to worry about normal or insert modes, you could easily use your mouse to select text then move to where you wanted it pasted. If you can ride out that initial blockage and build up some inertia with Vim, I'm sure you'll begin to understand why so many programmers swear by it.
