---
layout: post
title: "Mind/Body"
description: "They're connected"
categories: [thoughts]
tags: [mind, body]
redirect_from:
  - /2018/02/06
---

This week at 8th Light has been quite the rollercoaster. Juggling blog posts, a coding project, reading a book and preparing a talk have forced me to really analyze how I'm allocating my time and how to effectively timebox. Admittedly I'm not the best when it comes to timeboxing, especially when I'm coding. Making the conscious effort to check-in and see if I'm on track to complete my goals when I'm knee-deep in code can be quite difficult. I'm at the beginning of my journey here and already I feel like I'm learning so much.

One of the more gratifying things I've experienced so far is seeing good code design in action. I'm currently finishing up a project using the Tic Tac Toe game I built for 8th Light's screening and integrating it in Sinatra as a web application. By no means is my Tic Tac Toe perfect or even great. However, by keeping the code base modular and doing my best to separate concerns it made it that much easier to hook up to Sinatra and have it run on a web app. The SOLID principles and the 4 Simple Design Principles are all things I'm trying to keep in my mind while I code even if I'm not always successful in implementing them.

My most difficult day this week was probably Wednesday (the 7th). It was a good example of getting too far into the weeds and not being fully conscious of how lost I was getting. My front-end JavaScript became very messy, incoherent and downright disgusting. Tearing my hair out over async calls and put requests I decided to call it a night. Waking up today and getting to work I laughed because of how easy last night's problems were after a good-night's rest. There is definitely a biological aspect to coding. The mind works in tandem with the body. If the body is tired and stressed, so is the mind. Being present in your body can go a long way in understanding how much fuel you have left in the tank. Next time, I'm going to take a deep breath next time I find myself in the weeds and check in to see how heavy my eyelids feel.

Fail. Ask questions. Learn. Repeat.
