---
layout: post
title: "AMA"
description: "My experience pairing at AMA"
categories: [pairing]
tags: [pairing client consulting]
redirect_from:
  - /2018/06/07
---
This week I paired at one of our client sites, the American Medical Association.
During the three days I was there I learned a lot about the dynamics between
the in-house development team and the 8th Light team as well as getting the chance
to touch production code. Getting ramped up on the code base is the most daunting
part of the experience I think. There are so many moving parts and stories in the
pipeline. For someone coming in the middle of a production cycle it was a little
overwhelming. In addition to the actual source code there are tools that the team
uses to boot up their dev or test servers and or application that are specific to that
company. For AMA it was Rational Application Developer (RAD). We had a lot of trouble
trying to get RAD to cooperate and there is a lot of configuration and annoying hard
resetting and building of packages that you have to do before it works. I found that
RAD was in many ways an obstacle to being productive because it was so involved to get it
to work the way you wanted it to.
I got to sit in on morning stand-up which was very interesting. AMA's standup is very
typical in the sense that people go over what was accomplished the previous day and what
each team member plans to get done that day. However, unlike the casual apprentice stand-ups
that I'm used to at 8th Light, I think in the real world (like I saw at AMA), stand-ups
can be more politically fraught. I sensed politics, power-dynamics and tensions at play
during AMA's stand-ups. This make sense since these individuals are beholden to hard-deadlines
and business goals. One of the things we have to learn as consultants is how to navigate these
inter-office politics gracefully and diplomatically so we can do the best work possible and create
an environment where everyone feels they are playing for the same team. I think I still have a lot
to learn in this regard but I hope I get exposed to that more in the field.
I got to pair with Dave Torre for most of the three days I was at AMA and he was a pleasure to work with.
We were building out a front-end component for an application written in Angular. I was glad to have had
some experience with the framework so I wasn't completely lost when I started. Our team at 8th
Light focuses mostly on creating services and UI that interfaces with services that the AMA dev team provides us.
With that in mind it was crucial that we understood the API of these services and what kind of data they returned.
We were provided an XML file with sample responses from the services but I felt that the documentation for most
of the services was fairly poor. It made me appreciate and understand the need for good documentation.
As far as the source code we wrote, we first wrote tests in the typical TDD style and then wrote the source code
to make them pass. It was really cool to see how much work the 8th Light team had done on their end of the application
and how well tested everything was. We really do walk the walk when it comes to TDD!
On my third and final day at AMA we ran into Git hell. Since the story we were working on was so huge and had so
many commits and people working on it, the commit history had gotten crazy and we wanted to squash some commits to
make the history more understandable. We were trying to rebase and cherry-pick our way back to something comprehensible but this cost us basically the whole day because not only did we have to do our normal git flow but
due to a lot of merge conflicts we ended up doubling up on a lot of source code for some reason that I still don't
quite understand. During the git fiasco I was really confused. I still don't fully understand how git rebase and cherry-pick works. What makes it more confusing is I don't fully understand the commit history of the project having not been on the project. Dave took the wheel and drove that one but I think the lesson we both took away from the experience was that making smaller stories is the key to avoiding huge merge conflicts and confusing commit histories. Later on on the third day I got to sit in on a meeting to talk about what was expected for the next deployment. We got to talk about the details of the stories and also estimations. This was my first real experience on a production team estimating stories and I thought it was very interesting. One of the big obstacles for the 8th Light team the past couple weeks has been due to people being sick and out of work. This has slowed things down significantly. There was a lot to get done for the production cycle and there was no guarantee that people would be back in the office. Not only that but the team had to account for PTO and vacation time that people were taking during the sprint. Coordinating work and life outside of work is complicated!
One thing that also affected my concentration and energy levels throughout the days at AMA was the office space. At 8th Light we have a very open office space with windows surrounding most of the rooms. At the AMA office we were in the middle of the office floor with very little space and no windows. The room was plain and cramped. AMA's office is very traditional in the sense that there are cubicle farms. It made me realize how important it is to work in a space that keeps your energy levels up. I found that my energy levels really peaked before lunch and then afterwards it was really hard to concentrate. I'm a morning person in general but I noticed that my concentration definitely suffered due to the room arrangement. I think one way of helping that situation would've been brining in some plants or decorations to make the room feel more alive. In any case I will take that lesson with me and I'm curious to see how other client sites set up their offices.
